--- Interaction Technology Innovation (Year 1 - Period 3) ---



==================================
FILE: Attachment_t0035928_Lease_Mar132024083052.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
 1 | 28
CAMPUS CONTRACT
Address:
van Heuven Goedhartplein 265  
Postal code:
3527 DK, Utrecht
Building:
HIGH RISE
Floor level:
5
Size:
22.70m²
OCO Toren B.V. registered with the Trade Register under number NL854531038B01, with its 
registered office in The Hague, hereafter referred to as: “Landlord”
and
Tenant:
Last name: 
Chen
Given name: 
Yangfan
 
Date of birth: 
29/05/1998
Telephone number: 
616355176
Email address: 
y.chen40@students.uu.nl
hereafter referred to as: “Tenant”,
Whereas: 

Landlord manages the independent residences of the residential complex ‘Canvas Utrecht’, 
which is specifically designated for student housing. 

Tenant is registered as a student at an educational institution, hereafter Educational 
Institution, as specified in Section 1.2, clause a and b of the Higher Education and Scientific 
Research Act (‘Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek’) or Section 1.1.1 
clause b of the Education and vocational training Act (“Wet educatie en beroepsonderwijs”), 
which is the basis for eligibility for renting residential accommodation on Canvas Utrecht;

Tenant acknowledges that the duration of this Campus Contract is directly related to the 
duration of Tenant’s registration at an Educational Institution and that Tenant is obligated to 
vacate the Accommodation after completion or termination of his/her education at an 
Educational Institution. After the departure of Tenant, Landlord will seek tenancy by another 
student; 

Canvas Utrecht offers various facilities for the benefit of its tenants, such as bicycle parking, 
facilities for study, recreation and sports, a service desk and security;
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 2 ---
 2 | 28
Agree to the following:
Article 1. 
Rent and Tenancy 
1.1
Landlord rents to Tenant, who accepts tenancy of the independent residential 
accommodation, located at van Heuven Goedhartplein 265  3527 DK in Utrecht. The 
enjoyment under this tenancy includes the shared use of the Common areas. All the above is 
hereafter together referred to as: ‘the Accommodation’.
1.2
The state of the Accommodation and the Finishing and furniture present in the 
Accommodation upon commencement date shall be documented by Landlord and Tenant in 
an Inspection form, as such signed for approval by both parties. 
Article 2.
Designated Use of the Accommodation
2.1
The Accommodation is exclusively intended for personal residential use by Tenant. 
2.2
The Accommodation is explicitly intended for the housing of (inter)national students. Tenant is 
a student within the meaning of Article 7:274d of the Dutch Civil Code.
Article 3.
Duration
3.1
This Campus Contract will enter into effect on 01/04/2024. The date and time of delivery of the 
Accommodation depend on Landlord’s planning. This Campus Contract is entered into for a 
minimum period of one year.
3.2
Landlord shall make the Accommodation available to Tenant provided that Tenant has fulfilled 
all obligations to Landlord required at that time, i.e.: a) full prepayment of the due Rent, b) 
payment of the security deposit. 
3.3 
This Campus Contract cannot be terminated by Landlord or Tenant through notice before the 
end of the first lease year. Tenant can at all times terminate the lease after expiry of the first 
lease year through notice by giving notice before the first day of a calendar month, with a 
minimum notice period of one calendar month.
3.4 
Landlord can terminate the lease through notice on the basis that the Accommodation will be 
made available to a young person, a doctoral candidate or a student and that Tenant has 
neglected to comply with a written request from Landlord, which it can make annually, to 
submit a statement from the Educational Institution in question that evidences that Tenant is 
registered as a student. The provisions in this article do not affect other possible legal 
possibilities of termination for Landlord.  
Article 4.
Rent and additional compensation for supplies and services
4.1
Upon commencement of this Campus Contract, the Rent amounts to: €819.00 per month for 
the Accommodation.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 3 ---
 3 | 28
4.2
Upon commencement of this Campus Contract, Landlord shall provide the additional supplies 
and services that are subject to annual settlement, comprised of the following elements: 
Heating facilities:
a. the supply of electricity, gas, oil and heated water, or any other form of energy for heating 
the residential part of the Accommodation and tap water;
b. the provision of electricity, gas, oil and heated water, or any other form of energy for heating 
the Common areas; 
c. the use and reading of heat meters and consumption meters. 
Electricity, gas and water:
a. the supply of electricity, gas and water for consumption in the residential part of the 
Accommodation; 
b. the supply of electricity, gas and water for consumption in the Common areas and for the 
use of common facilities; 
c. the use and reading of meters, the processing of meter readings and other administrative 
work related to the allocation of consumption and consumption costs to individual tenants. 
Movable property:
a. movable kitchen equipment; 
b. Finishing and furniture in the residential part of the Accommodation; 
c. Finishing and furniture in the Common areas;
d. movable solar panels; 
e. fire extinguishers in the Common areas. 
Service desk, security service and maintenance: 
a. supervising the proper use of the Common areas by residents, their visitors and third 
parties (7 days a week, 24 hours a day); 
b. monitoring the safety of residents (7 days a week, 24 hours a day); 
c. responding to alarms from the residential part of the Accommodation (7 days a week, 24 
hours a day); 
d. performing security work with respect to the building;
e. parcel storage service;
f. general service for resident support and promote good occupancy through an on-site service 
desk (in principle during office hours); 
f. having a maintenance contract with 24-hour service; 
g. outside windows cleaning; 
h. the performance of tenants' chargeable minor repairs in the Common areas (including use 
of maintenance technicians, garden maintenance, lamp replacement, pest control, cleaning 
and other minor repairs in the Common areas); 
i. commissioning garbage stations and disposing of garbage.
Signal delivery: 
a. commissioning movable electronic equipment to capture and relay the signal for internet, 
managed wifi, television and electronic equipment such as intercom, solar panels and electric 
doors (hereafter: the signal); 
b. making minor repairs to the electronic equipment for capturing and relaying the signal; 
c. concluding and maintaining the subscription for providing the signal for the benefit of the 
Common areas and facilities;
d. concluding and maintaining the subscription for providing the signal for the benefit of the 
residential part of the Accommodation;
f. paying royalties for the benefit of tenants; 
g. paying for the benefit of tenants fixed charge and other costs of an alarm in the elevator. 
Glass Insurance (excluding damage caused by Tenant)
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 4 ---
 4 | 28
Administration fee in the amount of 1% on heating costs and 5% on other costs, with a 
minimum of €7.50 per annual settlement per Accommodation.
The monthly advance payment for the costs of these additional supplies and services amounts 
to €212.36 (including VAT if applicable).
4.3
Tenant is aware that the specified supplies and services may not be cancelled by Tenant for 
the duration of this Campus Contract. Tenant expressly accepts this obligation due to the 
distinct character of Canvas Utrecht and its specific services and the explicit decision by 
Tenant to rent Accommodation on Canvas Utrecht. In case of the introduction of legislation or 
regulations that prevent the costs of one or more agreed supplies and services from being 
charged (in full) to the tenant, the parties agree that the supply or service in question will be 
simplified or limited in such a way that the costs do not exceed the maximum that may be 
charged. 
4.4
The total of the amounts stipulated in the Articles 4.1 and 4.2 is: €1,031.36 and must be 
fulfilled by advanced payment, no later than before the first day of every calendar month to the 
account of Landlord by bank transfer to IBAN account number NL84HSBC2038395888 to the 
name of OCO Toren B.V..
4.5
For effectuation of the bank transfer specified in the previous Article, Tenant shall cooperate, 
and follow Landlord's instructions, in order to set up an automatic payment through the 
issuance of a direct debit authorization or through a portal and/or payment provider used by 
Landlord. Credit card payments will not be accepted except for the first payment prior to 
delivery of the Accommodation.
Article 5. 
Security Deposit
5.1 
Tenant is obligated to pay Landlord a security deposit, as a security for all that Tenant shall 
owe Landlord pursuant to this Campus Contract. The security deposit amounts to €1,638.00
5.2 
The security deposit must be received by Landlord prior to the signing of this Campus 
Contract. Landlord will only countersign this Campus Contract after receiving the security 
deposit. 
5.3 
Tenant is prohibited from settling the security deposit with rental payments or further financial 
obligations.
5.4
In principle, Landlord shall refund (the remainder of) the security deposit to Tenant ultimately 
within 14 calendar days after termination of the Campus Contract. If there is damage to the 
Accommodation and/or if not all rent and service charges have been paid yet, Landlord shall 
refund the remainder of the security deposit (if any) to Tenant within 30 calendar days after 
termination of the Campus Contract after settlement with the amount owed by Tenant.  
5.5
Landlord does not owe Tenant positive interest of the refundable security deposit casu quo the 
remainder thereof. 
Article 6.
General Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 5 ---
 5 | 28
6.1
The General Terms and Conditions (annex 1) apply to this Campus Contract. Tenant declares 
that he downloaded, printed and read a copy of the General Terms and Conditions when he 
concluded this Campus Contract. These General Terms and Conditions form an integral part 
of this Campus Contract. Landlord has the right to adopt an amended version of the General 
Terms and Conditions. Tenant will be notified of a change as soon as possible. Unless Tenant 
objects to the change in writing with reasons within 4 weeks after notification, the change is 
binding for Tenant. Landlord ensures that the version of the General Terms and Conditions 
that was adopted most recently is always available for inspection via the service desk and in 
the resident portal.
6.2
In accordance with our Global Privacy Policy (https://www.greystar.com/privacy), Greystar will 
collect and process your personal data to:

provide you with property management services, including to communicate with you about 
payments, maintenance, and other on-site services 

comply with legal obligations

ensure the safety of our residents 

assert or defend a legal right or claim, if necessary

conduct credit check to ensure financial solvency
Greystar may also communicate with you about properties and promotions where indicated in 
your communication preferences.
Personal data may be transferred to the U.S. and other countries where data protection laws 
may differ from those of your home country. We only share personal data with Greystar 
affiliates, service providers, property owners, and partners in accordance with authorized 
business purposes. Each of these parties are responsible for the protection of personal data. 
For more information about the type of data we collect, the purposes of processing, to submit 
an inquiry regarding your privacy preferences, as well as to identify dedicated points of 
contact for your region and how to file a complaint with a data protection authority, please 
refer to our Global Privacy Policy (https://www.greystar.com/privacy). Additionally, you are 
afforded 
certain 
privacy 
rights, 
which 
can 
be 
exercised 
by 
contacting 
us 
at 
privacy@greystar.com.
Article 7. 
Address Tenant 
7.1
As of the commencement date of this Campus Contract Landlord may consider the address of 
the Accommodation and email address of Tenant, as stated on page 1 (one) of this Campus 
Contract as the only correct address and email address of Tenant, until such time that 
Landlord receives notification from Tenant that states otherwise. Upon termination of this 
Campus Contract, Tenant is required to provide Landlord with his new address.
Article 8.
‘Throughput’ policy
8.1
Tenant is aware that Landlord has an active throughput policy that is geared at maintaining 
the current and future use of Canvas Utrecht, of which the Accommodation is a part, in 
accordance with its student housing designation. 
8.2
At Landlord's first request, Tenant will provide information to Landlord concerning his 
(continued) registration as a student with an Educational Institution. If Tenant has not provided 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 6 ---
 6 | 28
the evidence within three months after the initial request, Landlord will have the right to 
terminate the Campus Contract, without prejudice to any of Landlord's other rights.
8.3
At Landlord's first request, Tenant shall cooperate with verification of enrollment at an 
Educational Institution. Tenant hereby explicitly authorizes Landlord and the Educational 
Institution to exchange personal data of Tenant for verification of Tenant’s student status 
and/or for verification of the validity of a proof of enrollment provided by Tenant. Tenant grants 
Landlord an irrevocable power of attorney to represent Tenant in this respect. Landlord will 
only keep a digital copy of Tenant’s proof of registration with an Educational Institution. At 
Landlord's request, Tenant is required to cooperate in the exchange of personal data in this 
regard via Datakeeper or similar application. 
8.4
In the event Tenant is no longer registered as a student at an Educational Institution during 
the term of the Campus Contract, Tenant will cooperate in the implementation of Landlord's 
policy, either by agreeing to termination by Landlord or by ending the Campus Contract by 
giving notice of termination in accordance with the Law, all of the above in the shortest 
possible term and in consultation with Landlord and on the understanding that Tenant cannot 
terminate before the end of the first year of the Campus Contract, as described in Article 3.3.
Article 9. 
Penalties 
9.1 
Tenant and Landlord agree that if Tenant fails to fulfil his obligation(s) under the following 
provision(s), he will forfeit to Landlord an immediately due and payable penalty as stated 
below, without prejudice to Tenant’s obligation to still fulfil this obligation and without prejudice 
to Landlord’s right to (additional) compensation or any other rights it may have:
A.
in the event of the violation of Articles 4.5, 9.7, 12.1, 12.2, 12.4, 14.2, 14.6, 19.1, 22.1 
and 26.7 of the General Terms and Conditions, a penalty of € 25,00 for each violation 
and for each calendar day that the violation continues, with a maximum of € 1.000,00;
B.
in the event of the violation of Articles 4.1, 13.1, 14.1, 14.9,, 27.1 and 28.1 of the 
General Terms and Conditions, a penalty of € 100,00 for each violation and for each 
calendar day that the violation continues, with a maximum of € 5.000,00;
C.
in the event of the violation of Articles 9.5 and 9.6 of the General Terms and 
Conditions Canvas Utrecht, a penalty of € 2.500,00 for each violation and for each 
calendar day that the violation continues, with a maximum of € 10.000,00.
9.2
If one act or omission is subject to different penalties (one of which can be a contractual 
obligation to remit profits), Tenant shall not forfeit several penalties side by side, but only the 
penalty that arrives at the highest amount. Landlord may claim damages in addition to a 
penalty only if and to the extent that the actual damages exceed the penalty.
Signed for agreement on  
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478
13/03/2024

--- Page 7 ---
 7 | 28
Landlord:
Tenant:
OCO Toren B.V.
Yangfan Chen
(Canvas Utrecht)
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478
                              
                              
                              

--- Page 8 ---
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
CANVAS UTRECHT
January 2024
 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 9 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 9 | 28
Article 1.
General Terms and Conditions 
These General Terms and Conditions (hereafter: General Terms and Conditions) are incorporated with 
reference in Contracts of OCO Beddenhuis B.V. or OCO Toren B.V. Tenant has obtained and read these General 
Terms and Conditions prior to signing the Contract.
Article 2.
Definition of Terms
In the Contract and these General Terms and Conditions the following definitions apply:
Accommodation 
The rented accommodation at Canvas Utrecht as defined in Article 1 of the Contract. 
Building
The real property, including all land and fixtures, in which the Accommodation is incorporated. 
Canvas Utrecht
The residential complex ‘Canvas Utrecht’ at the Van Heuven Goedhartplein in Utrecht.
Common areas 
The following areas at Canvas Utrecht: the corridors, hallways, stairways in the Building(s), the laundry rooms, 
lounge areas, games area, private dining room, study rooms, bicycle parking and external courtyard and 
gardens.
Contract
The lease agreement between Landlord and Tenant with respect to the Accommodation, of which these 
General Terms and Conditions are inseverable components. 
Costs of additional supplies and services 
The costs of additional supplies and services, to which a system of advance payments and annual settlement 
applies. 
Finishing and furniture
The fittings, finishing, furniture and/or inventory made available by Landlord to Tenant.
Inspection form
The form that records the condition of the Accommodation and the inventory list and condition of Finishing 
and furniture. 
Key Tag
The electronic Key Tag, that is scanned at, and grants entry to, the Accommodation and certain amenities.
Landlord
OCO Beddenhuis B.V. or OCO Toren B.V., both with registered office in The Hague, or their legal successors.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 10 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 10 | 28
Law
The laws of the Netherlands. 
Parking Facility
The parking facility for cars, bicycles, scooters and motorcycles.
Rent
The compensation owed by Tenant for the use of the Accommodation. 
Tenant 
The person with whom Landlord has entered into a Contract. 
Article 3.
Delivery and acceptance of the Accommodation
3.1
On the agreed date Landlord shall make the Accommodation available to Tenant. 
3.2
In the event that Landlord does not make the Accommodation available to Tenant on the agreed date, 
e.g. due to the fact that the Accommodation has not been completed or has not been vacated by the 
previous Tenant on time, Tenant shall not be obligated to pay rent up to the date that the 
Accommodation is made available to him. This also applies to the Costs of additional supplies and 
services. 
3.3
If the parties have agreed on a specific commencement date, the Accommodation will be made 
available to Tenant no later than 1 week after that date, unless construction and/or repair works are 
delayed. Landlord will announce the date and time on which the Accommodation will be made 
available to Tenant, no later than 1 week beforehand. Landlord is not liable for damages suffered by 
Tenant as a result of the late delivery of the Accommodation.
3.4
Landlord and Tenant shall record an Inspection form upon the delivery of the Accommodation, which 
includes: 
a.
the date of inspection;
b.
a description on the state and condition of the Accommodation;
c.
an inventory list and the state and condition of the Finishings and furniture.
3.5
Tenant and Landlord shall each receive a signed (digital) copy of the Inspection form. If Tenant is not 
present at the Delivery and/or does not cooperate in signing the Inspection form, Landlord is entitled 
to adopt it unilaterally.
Article 4.
Single Tenancy 
 
4.1
Based on local Housing Regulations (‘Huisvestingsverordening”), it is prohibited to use the 
Accommodation as residence for more than 2 adults that do not form a household (‘Huishouden’) 
together as referred to in the applicable Housing Regulations. If two persons have entered into the 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 11 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 11 | 28
Contract as Tenant, and those two persons are – either upon entering into the Contract or at any other 
time during the Contract – not considered to form a household, it is not allowed to form a household 
with another adult (also not through marriage or registered partnership).  If the Accommodation is 
used as residence for more than 2 adults that do not form a household, Landlord is allowed to 
terminate the Contract. 
4.2
The following types of accommodations are intended for occupation by no more than 2 persons: 
Classic (greater than 25m2), Premium, Premium plus, Deluxe and Deluxe plus units in the low rise. The 
other types of accommodations are intended for occupation by no more than 1 person. Taking into 
account the limited floor area of the Accommodation and to prevent excessive wear and tear and 
inconveniences, Tenant is prohibited from allowing the Accommodation to be inhabited by, or to be 
used by, more persons than permitted.
4.3
Tenant may submit a request to Landlord to allow one co-occupant to the Accommodation when 
Tenant is leasing a Classic (greater than 25m2), Premium, Premium plus, Deluxe or Deluxe plus unit in 
the low rise. In that case, Tenant will provide the Landlord with the name, telephone number and e-
mail address of this person in writing or by email. Landlord is not obliged to give permission. In any 
case, Landlord will not give permission for a (new) co-occupant more than once a year. If two persons 
have entered into the Contract as Tenant, Landlord will not give permission for a co-occupant. If 
Landlord gives permission, Tenant will receive an extra Key Tag in the name of the co-occupant. 
Landlord is entitled to attach conditions to its permission, for example the conditions that the 
Accommodation is expanded with an extra bicycle storage space and that the Rent and/or (advance 
for) the Costs of additional supplies and services are increased accordingly. The co-occupant is 
expressly not a co-tenant within the meaning of Article 7:267 of the Dutch Civil Code.  
4.4
In the event there is serious doubt concerning compliance with the obligations stipulated in Article 4.1 
or 4.2, Tenant is obligated to cooperate fully with all inquiries by Landlord with respect to Tenant’s 
compliance with these obligations, and must provide Landlord with all relevant documentation and 
data, and allow Landlord entry to the Accommodation on one or more occasions.
4.5
Upon entering into the Contract, Tenant shall notify Landlord if Tenant is married or a registered 
partner. Tenant shall provide the personal data of his/her partner to Landlord. The above also applies 
in the event Tenant marries or becomes a registered partner during the course of the Contract.
4.6
In the event of possible continuation of the Contract in accordance with the Articles 7:266 (spouse or 
registered partner) or 7:268 (death Tenant) of the Dutch Civil Code, the person who continues the 
Contract or intends to continue the Contract is obligated to inform Landlord in writing immediately. 
This continuation will not change the legal regime of the Contract pursuant to the Law. 
4.7
If two persons have entered into the Contract as Tenant, they shall always be jointly and severally 
liable to Landlord for all obligations arising from the Contract. The Contract can only be terminated by 
both tenants together. One tenant cannot have the Contract terminated with respect to that tenant 
alone by giving notice or by leaving the Accommodation.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 12 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 12 | 28
Article 5.
Common areas
5.1
The availability of the Common areas is the mutual and joint responsibility of Tenant and all other 
tenants of residential accommodations at Canvas Utrecht. Therefore, Tenant must respect all other 
tenants and their right of use, unless otherwise specified in the Contract or these General Terms and 
Conditions. 
5.2
The following specific provisions apply to the use of Common areas, regardless of the Tenant 
obligations as set out in Article 9 of the General Terms and Condition and terms specified at the 
Common area locations. Common areas are equipped with security cameras. Landlord is not 
responsible for the loss or theft of the Tenant's properties and/or for any damage the Tenant might 
suffer during or as a consequence of Tenant's use of, or Tenant's presence in, these Common areas. 
Parking facility
Bicycles, mopeds, scooters et cetera may not be parked outside the dedicated Parking facility – this 
includes parking or locking at entrances or against the facade of the Building, window- and 
doorframes, windscreens or outdoor furnishings. It is strictly prohibited to park bicycles, mopeds, 
scooters or motorcycles near fire service access spaces or emergency exits.
The indoor bicycle parking spaces are intended solely for residents of Canvas Utrecht. Tenant may park 
its bicycle only in designated spots. The bicycle is required to fit in the designated spot (no oversized 
wheels, steers or big baskets). The Parking Facility is accessible to Tenant 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week with the Key Tag. 
The Parking Facility may be used for parking a car, moped or scooter, only if Tenant has entered into a 
separate lease agreement for a car, moped /scooter or motorcycle parking space. 
Visitors must park their bicycles, mopeds, scooters, motorcycles and cars in the designated parking 
spaces for visitors or off the premises.   
Study/work area
Landlord cannot guarantee availability of spots in the study/work areas. Tenant must take account of 
the following guidelines, rules and regulations:

The study/work areas are a facility for studying or working, exclusively for Canvas Utrecht 
residents. Users must respect other residents and reduce noise (no calls, music or loud 
conversations),

The project rooms (if applicable) is a meeting facility for groups. When having meetings, residents 
should be considerate of other users; close the door and limit (conversation) volume. 

The project rooms (if applicable) can be used by individuals, but individual users need to move to 
the general study/work area if fellow residents would like to work/meet as a group. The “first-
come-first-serve” principal is applicable if there is no alternative desk space. 

All facilities need to be kept nice and tidy at all times. It is not allowed to take furniture outside of 
the designated area.

The study/work areas  are equipped with security cameras. Canvas Utrecht is not accountable for 
loss or theft of any personal items.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 13 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 13 | 28
Laundry rooms
The laundry rooms are accessible 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Use of the laundry rooms is for 
private purposes only and in accordance with the guidelines set out in the laundry rooms.  It is not 
permitted to give third parties access to the laundry rooms. Tenant pays individually for the use of 
laundry appliances. These costs for the individual use of laundry appliances are not part of (the 
advance for) the Costs of additional supplies and services.
Lounges and game room 
Tenant should be aware that Landlord cannot guarantee availability of spots in the lounges and game 
room (further called “Lounges”). Tenant must also take account of the following guidelines, rules and 
regulations:

The Lounges are exclusively for residents of Canvas Utrecht

The opening hours are determined by the management and regulated by the Security Service

The Lounges are a social amenity for residents. Residents are expected to be considerate of other 
users and respect other users and avoid excessive noise.

Residents are welcome to bring own drinks & snacks. It is prohibited to put drinks on the pool 
table or the foosball table or (music) equipment and residents are expected to remove any spilled 
fluids and food immediately.

Residents should keep the Lounges clean and tidy. It is prohibited to remove, detach or uninstall 
any of the equipment or fittings provided. It is not allowed to take furniture outside of the 
Lounges. Notify the service desk if anything is broken or damaged.

Landlord may reserve the Lounges for private use with access restrictions for residents. Private 
use of the Lounges will be limited to an average maximum of 5% per annum.

Residents must follow the above guidelines and always respect directions of staff and security. 
Access to the Lounges will be denied to those violating the above.
Communal courtyard & gardens
Tenant should be aware that Landlord cannot guarantee availability of spots in/on the communal 
courtyard & gardens. Tenant must also take account of the following guidelines, rules and regulations:

The communal courtyard & gardens are not open to the public.

The opening hours are determined by the management and regulated by the security service

Mind that the communal courtyard & gardens are surrounded by residential apartments. Privacy 
should be respected by keeping distance and avoiding excessive noise.

Residents are welcome to bring own drinks & snacks. The communal courtyard & gardens should 
be used respectfully and kept clean and tidy. Residents need to notify the service desk if anything 
is broken or damaged.

Barbecuing and open campfire is strictly prohibited.

The facilities are equipped with security cameras. Canvas Utrecht is not accountable for loss or 
theft of any personal items.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 14 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 14 | 28

Residents are expected to follow the above guidelines and always respect directions of staff and 
security service. Access to the communal courtyard & gardens will be denied to those violating 
the above.
Cinema Room
Tenant should be aware that Landlord cannot guarantee availability of spots in the cinema room. 
Tenant must also take account of the following guidelines, rules and regulations:

The cinema room facility is exclusively for residents at Canvas Utrecht.

The opening hours are determined by the management and regulated by the security service

Residents are welcome to bring own drinks & snacks but should use the cinema room respectfully 
and keep it clean and tidy. Residents need to notify the service desk if anything is broken or 
damaged.

It is possible to stream content via a private device to the big screen of the cinema room. The user 
of the streaming device is responsible for any legal violation which this may cause.

It is prohibited to stream illegal content in the cinema room. Also, it is prohibited to stream 
erotic/pornographic or religious content which may offend other residents.

The cinema room may be reserved for private use via the service desk for a presentation or 
workshop. It is up to the discretion of the service desk if a request for private use can be granted.  
Private use of the theatre will be limited to an average maximum of 5% per annum. 

Residents are expected to comply with the above guidelines and always respect directions of staff 
and security service. Access to the cinema room will be denied to those violating the above. 
Article 6.
Rent and Rent adjustment
6.1
Tenant is obliged to pay the Rent and the Costs for additional supplies and services in accordance with 
the Contract. Landlord is allowed to introduce a portal or specific software for the payment of Rent 
and other payment obligation of Tenant, in which case Tenant is obligated to use such portal or 
software for payment. 
6.2
The Rent is adjusted each calendar year as of 1 July by a percentage equal to the then current legally 
permissible maximum percentage for the type of lease in question (regulated or non-regulated). The 
adjustment will be proposed or announced by Landlord.
6.3
If at any time no legally permissible maximum percentage applies for the type of lease in question, the 
Rent will be adjusted by 1 July based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all households (2015=100) 
+1%. The new Rent is then calculated according to the following formula: the new Rent is equal to the 
old Rent multiplied by: (the index figure of March of the year in which the adjustment takes place, 
divided by the index figure of March of the year before the year in which the adjustment takes place 
and then increased by 0,01).  
6.4
The adjustment described in Article 6.3 consists of two parts, each with its own justification. The 
adjustment based on CPI is necessary to correct for inflation. The 1% increase in that percentage is 
necessary to prevent an imbalance between the rent and the market value of the Accommodation. 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 15 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 15 | 28
Residential leases often have long terms. The market value of housing usually rises faster than the 
consumer price index. In the period from 2014 to 2023, residential property values increased at an 
average annual rate of 5.33%. The consumer price index increased by an average of 2.75% per year 
during that period. This means that residential property values increased by an average of 2.58% per 
year more than the consumer price index. Opting for a change with CPI + 1% prevents the rent from 
getting too out of step with the value of the Accommodation, while leaving a generous margin in case 
the value of homes rises comparatively less sharply for a period of time. Adjusting by a widely known 
index +1% also aligns with the legislature's choices in this area. If Tenant does not wish to pay the Rent 
adjusted based on Article 6.3, Tenant had the right to terminate the Contract within one week after 
Landlord has announced the adjustment as per the date on which the adjustment is to take effect 
(even if early termination of the Contract is excluded for a certain period of time). If Tenant is unable 
to observe a month’s notice in doing so, Landlord shall not hold Tenant to this notice period.
Article 7.
Costs of additional supplies and services 
7.1
Tenant owes Landlord the amount specified in Article 4.2 of the Contract as the advance for the Costs 
of additional supplies and services on a monthly basis (‘advance’). 
7.2
In addition to Article 7:261 paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (which Article the parties declare 
applicable in case of non-regulated rent), the advance may be altered as specified in Article 7.3.
7.3
In the event that Landlord:
a.
wishes to alter the agreed package of supplies and services, or
b.
wishes to expand upon or reduce the package, or
c.
wishes to alter the calculation of and/or the amounts
Tenant shall in principal agree to such request, on the condition that: 

the interests of Landlord in altering, expanding or reducing the package is such that Tenant may 
not reasonably, weighing the interests of both parties, withhold his/her consent, and

Landlord has notified Tenant(s) of the alteration, expansion or reduction in a timely fashion.
7.4
The financial year of Canvas Utrecht starts on January 1st and ends on 31st December of every year. 
Each year, within six months after the end of the financial year, Landlord shall provide Tenant with a 
specified statement of the Costs of additional supplies and services. Differences between actual costs 
and advances paid by Tenant shall be settled within a month after such statement has been provided 
to Tenant. In the event that Tenant has paid more than the actual costs, he will be refunded for that 
amount. In the event that Tenant has paid less than the actual costs, such additional amount shall be 
invoiced to him. Landlord reserves the right to make a correction to a provided statement or to the 
following year's statement if it appears that a provided statement is not entirely accurate, such as 
because certain costs were not (fully) reflected.
7.5
The Accommodation is equipped with meters for utilities. Tenant shall cooperate with the annual 
check or reading of the meters in the Accommodation by or on behalf of Landlord. 
Article 8.
Landlord obligations and liability
8.1
For the duration of the Contract, Landlord shall provide Tenant the use of the Accommodation. 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 16 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 16 | 28
Landlord is not obligated to guarantee Tenant protection against hindrance of an actual nature that 
Tenant suffers as a result of (the actions of) third parties. Building activities inside or in the vicinity of 
the Accommodation or the Building do not constitute a defect. 
8.2
Landlord must perform maintenance to the Accommodation to ensure it is kept in good condition and 
execute all necessary maintenance and repair work, except the work that must be executed by Tenant 
pursuant to the Law and Article 10. 
8.3
Upon request by Tenant, Landlord must execute repairs to the Accommodation, barring those 
instances where this is not feasible or requires expenditure of amounts that may not be considered 
reasonable in the given circumstances. This obligation does not apply with respect to minor repairs 
that are considered maintenance obligations on the part of Tenant nor does it apply to those instances 
where Tenant may be held liable by Landlord for the cause of the repairs. Landlord shall make any 
necessary repairs to the general standard of the Accommodation. 
8.4
In the event that necessary repairs to or in the Accommodation are the result of negligence, 
carelessness or inappropriate use of by Tenant or third parties using or present in the Accommodation 
with the consent of Tenant, all costs related to these repairs are for the sole account of Tenant, 
irrespective of the nature and scope of the repairs. 
8.5
Landlord is not liable for damages suffered by Tenant and/or other third parties using or present in the 
Accommodation with the consent of Tenant, nor is Landlord liable for damage to objects in the 
Accommodation as a result of visible or hidden faults to the Accommodation, unless 
a.
the fault has arisen after the Contract has been entered into and may be attributed to Landlord, 
or 
b.
the fault was present at the time the Contract was entered into and Landlord was (or should have 
been) aware of the fault, or in the event that upon entering into the Contract, Landlord informed 
Tenant that such a fault was not present.
8.6
Landlord is furthermore not liable for damages suffered by Tenant, and/or third parties using or 
present in the Accommodation with the consent of Tenant or objects present in the Accommodation 
as a result of meteorological circumstances, an epidemic or pandemic, floods, increase or decrease of 
ground water levels, natural disasters, atomic reactions, conflicts, wars, attacks and/or other 
calamities. Tenant waives his/her right (if applicable) to claim compensation vis-à-vis Landlord and/or 
the owner of the Building by virtue of Article 6:174 of the Dutch Civil Code to the extent that such 
compensation extends beyond the compensation for which Landlord is liable because of the event 
under Article 7:208 Dutch Civil Code.
Article 9.
Tenant obligations 
9.1
Tenant must use and maintain the Accommodation in accordance with the principles of good tenancy 
and in accordance with the designation of the Accommodation. Tenant shall comply with the Contract 
and General Terms and Conditions at all times and Tenant shall procure that any third-party visitors to 
the Accommodation and Canvas Utrecht will also comply with all regulations under this Article. 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 17 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 17 | 28
9.2
In case of an unfurnished accommodation Tenant shall furthermore furnish the Accommodation for 
the duration of the Contract. 
9.3
Tenant is obliged to take out and maintain an adequate household contents insurance. The Tenant 
must first apply to his/her insurer if damage is covered by the scope and coverage of any of its 
insurance policies. 
9.4
Tenant is not allowed to remove/replace all or parts of the Finishing and furniture. It is the 
responsibility of Tenant to maintain the Finishing and furniture in good condition. All repairs to the 
Finishing and furniture necessary as a result of incorrect use, gross negligence, impurity or rough act 
by Tenant or persons Tenant is responsible for will be charged to Tenant for the price when new 
(replacement price), which consists of material costs, transport costs and any handling costs. 
9.5
Tenant is not permitted to undertake commercial trade activities from, establish a business from, or 
use the Accommodation as a workshop. Tenant is not permitted to (allow) use (of) the 
Accommodation for the purposes of cultivating marijuana and/or any other plants or to produce any 
narcotics included in the Opium Act and the lists this Law incorporates and/or undertake any other 
activities related to the storage, exploitation and/or use of those goods in the broadest sense of the 
term.
9.6
Tenant may not sublet the Accommodation, in whole or in part, transfer the Contract, or make the 
Accommodation available to third parties in whole or in part. “Making available to third parties” is in 
the broadest sense of the word equivalent to subletting, including any form of making it available or 
exploiting it through www.airbnb.com or a similar platform. Tenant may not offer the Accommodation 
for rent or use either, such as through a platform like Airbnb. Furthermore, Tenant must pay to 
Landlord all unlawfully obtained profit resulting from subletting the Accommodation. 
9.7
The Tenant is obligated to keep the Accommodation clean in all respects. 
9.8
In the event of doubt concerning compliance with the obligations pursuant to Article 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 
9.6 and 9.7, Tenant must cooperate fully with all inquiries by Landlord with respect to compliance with 
these obligations by Tenant by providing all relevant data and documentation to Landlord and allowing 
one or more visits by Landlord to the Accommodation.
9.9
Tenant is obligated to keep the Common areas and all emergency exit routes free from objects that 
may hinder emergency exit from the Building or may constitute a danger or hindrance in any other 
manner.
9.10
Tenant is obligated to comply with the general terms and conditions of use of the wired and wireless 
internet network, and with all available instructions for using elevators and other technical systems. 
Upon request by Tenant, Landlord will provide these terms and conditions and/or instructions for 
Tenant to review. Tenant is provided with a copy of the general terms and conditions of use of the 
wired and wireless internet network.
9.11
Tenant shall not behave in any manner that is generally considered as disruptive (e.g. physically and/or 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 18 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 18 | 28
verbally violent) to other tenants at Canvas Utrecht, Landlord, service desk and security service 
employees and/or third parties in the vicinity of the Accommodation. Tenant bears full responsibility 
for the behaviour of other persons present in the Accommodation with his/her consent. The 
behaviour of these persons is considered the behaviour of Tenant himself.  
9.12
Upon division into apartment rights of the building or the complex of which the Accommodation is a 
component, Tenant must comply with the provisions of the deed of division and the division code. In 
the event that a condition comes into force that contradicts (a provision of) the Contract and/or these 
General Terms and Conditions, that specific provision prevails over the Contract, respectively these 
General Terms and Conditions. In the event of division into apartment rights, Landlord shall provide 
Tenant, upon Tenant’s request, the conditions of use from the deed of division and the division code 
for review.
9.13
Tenant is required to be able to identify himself while inside the Accommodation, the Building and/or 
Canvas Utrecht, by means of a valid (legally permitted) proof of identity. Landlord (and its employees 
or contractors) are entitled to demand that the proof of identity be shown. 
9.14
Tenant is obliged to comply with the instructions of Landlord, service desk and security service 
employees.
9.15
Tenant is obligated to register with the municipality as resident of the Accommodation from the entry 
date of the Contract. When the Contract has terminated, Tenant is obligated to deregister. 
9.16
If Landlord is charged for taxes and/or duties that pertain to Tenant's use of the Accommodation, 
Landlord is authorized to pass them on to Tenant. Tenant shall pay such taxes and/or duties within 14 
days.
Article 10.
Maintenance by Tenant
10.1
Tenant shall conduct small repairs for his/her own cost and expense, specifically including work as 
specified in the Decree on small repairs (‘Besluit kleine herstellingen’). This includes such work as: 

repair painted walls (if applicable) 

unclogging the sinks and drains and keeping the shower drain clean.

replacing defective lamps by identical LED lamps 

cleaning the curtains (if applicable) 

replacing & cleaning extraction hood filters

regularly clean Finishing and furniture, following cleaning instructions provided to prevent any 
damage (if applicable)

preventing the accumulation of limescale in the kitchen and bathroom/toilet facilities and 
removing it in a timely manner

regularly flushing of the toilet and water faucets to prevent any (Legionella) contamination. 
10.2
Tenant shall execute or commission a third party to execute the work referred to in sub Article 10.1 to 
a professional standard, in accordance with the regulations and instructions of the authorised 
organisations and Landlord, unless parties have agreed that Landlord shall execute the work against 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 19 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 19 | 28
costs payable by Tenant.
10.3
In the event that Tenant fails to meet his/her maintenance or repair obligations, Landlord is 
authorised to execute or commission a third party to execute the work at the expense of Tenant after 
having notified Tenant of such. Landlord is not obligated to notify Tenant in the event that the work, 
that is for the expense of Tenant, is urgent and cannot be postponed. In that event, Landlord is 
authorised to execute or commission a third party to execute the work immediately, at the expense of 
Tenant.
Article 11.
Liability of Tenant
11.1
Tenant is liable for all damage to the Accommodation that Tenant may be held accountable for as a 
result of a compliance violation of any obligation(s) pursuant to the Contract. All damages to the 
Accommodation are presumed to have been caused by such except fire damage and exterior damage. 
‘Damage’ includes, but is not limited to resulting loss of (rental) income.
11.2
The liability as specified in Article 11.1 also applies to damage caused by persons allowed entry to the 
Accommodation by Tenant. 
11.3
The liability specified in Article 11.1 also applies to damage caused by implementing, or having 
implemented by third parties, modifications or alterations to the Accommodation, without the prior 
written consent of Landlord. 
Article 12.
Inspections, urgent repairs 
12.1
Upon Landlord’s request, Tenant shall allow Landlord to inspect the Accommodation, also in relation 
to (prevention of) defects and Landlord repair works.
12.2
In the event that urgent repairs or work is required to the Accommodation, the Building or Canvas 
Utrecht (including work required by the authorities), Tenant must accept and permit such work. 
Tenant should take into account that from time to time work has to be carried out and therefore, in 
principle, nuisance from work does not provide a claim to reduction of any payment obligation, 
dissolution of the Contract and/or compensation for damages. Landlord shall provide timely notice to 
Tenant concerning the nature and scope, commencement date and duration of the work and/or 
repairs. 
12.3
In urgent cases, where required, Landlord is authorised to enter the Accommodation without prior 
permission of Tenant.
12.4
Tenant shall grant access to persons contracted by Landlord to conduct inspections or execute work to 
the Accommodation upon presentation of their identification.
12.5
Safe for unforeseen circumstances such visits, respectively work, shall be limited to working days 
between 8 AM and 6 PM, with a reasonable period of prior notice.
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478

--- Page 20 ---
General Terms & Conditions - Canvas Utrecht | January 2024
 20 | 28
12.6
Landlord is not liable for damages suffered by Tenant as a result of aforementioned actions, unless 
Landlord can be held accountable as a result of severe negligence or gross default.
Article 13.
Alterations by Tenant
13.1
Tenant is prohibited, unless Tenant has acquired prior written consent from Landlord, to make 
changes to the Accommodation, unless such changes may be reversed without notable cost at the end 
of the Contract. Changes to the exterior of the Accommodation is not permitted under any 
circumstance. Landlord is entitled to give its consent subject to (financial) conditions.
13.2 
Landlord is not liable for damage or injury suffered by Tenant and/or third parties related to the 
modifications and additions implemented by Tenant.  
13.3
Damage or injury suffered by third parties caused by and/or related to modifications to the 
Accommodation made by Tenant is for the account of Tenant. Tenant indemnifies Landlord from all 
such claims for compensation of damages by third parties.
13.4
Modifications made by Tenant without the prior consent of Landlord shall be reversed upon first 
request by Landlord. Modifications made by Tenant with the prior consent of Landlord shall be 
reversed by Tenant upon first request by Landlord if Landlord deems this necessary for the execution 
of repairs, maintenance or renewal to the Accommodation or the Building.
Article 14.
Building regulations
14.1
Tenant is prohibited from accessing the roof of the Accommodation or the Building, except for any 
designated rooftop terrace or in event of an emergency via the emergency routes.
14.2
The Accommodation or the Building (especially balconies and/or windows) may not be used to throw 
things down or to visibly hang laundry, flags, posters, placards et cetera, or place awnings / outdoor 
sun screens. 
14.3
The use of (inline) skates, roller skates, skateboards, waveboards, scooters, segways etcetera is 
prohibited. 
14.4
It is not permitted to place doormats in front of the front doors to the Accommodation.
14.5
Tenant is obligated to take measures to prevent damage to the Accommodation. In the event that 
Tenant discovers (impending) fault or damage to the Accommodation or suffers disruption of his/her 
residence rights, Tenant is obligated to notify Landlord of such immediately, in writing, in default of 
which Tenant must compensate Landlord for the damage caused by his/her negligence/ failure to 
notify Landlord. Fault or damage or impending fault or damage, under this clause includes damage to 
pipes, cables, barrels, drains, sewers, installations and equipment. 
14.6
Tenant must take appropriate measures to prevent clogging of drains. It is forbidden to flush sanitary 
napkins, tampons and (deep frying) fat down the toilets or sink. 
Document digitally signed using RentCafe eSignature services. Document ID: 40671478



==================================
FILE: assignment - 1\DesignResearchPlan_AC4D_worksheet.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
Is a group activity
Takes 0.5-1 hour
Materials required:
5
A research plan describes your approach, methods, activities, interview structure and 
length as they relate to the objectives and focus of the research.
6
Hold a Question Generation Session with your team. When your questions are in order, refine your 
Research Plan, develop a screener and begin to document everything digitally and in a shareable format.
Planning Contextual Research
Planning design research is 
challenging. Organization, a strong focus 
and team alignment are crucial.
Required: Participants must have a topic area defined 
for their research and a research team formed. 
Participants must also understand the scope of the 
program - primarily the time available to conduct 
research and the goal of the client.
Activity Details:
Before starting this activity:
About this activity:
·  Scrap paper / White board
·  Pens
·  Post-It Notes
1 
A focus is a point of view that defines what you aim to learn in your research. 
It should be 1-2 sentences.
Research Focus: What do you want to learn?
4 
Within the focus statement, what questions need to be answered? What are you curious about?
Key Questions: What key questions do you want to answer?
Research Plan: What is your plan of action in the field?
Iterate, Document & Create Discussion Guide
3 
Finding the right people is critical to the outcome of your research. 
List the key criteria that define the participants you seek.
Participants: From whom do you want to learn?
Things to consider:
• Do you need to meet the 
participants beforehand? 
• How will the session/inquiry 
start? 
• What specific activities will 
you watch, and in what order? 
Will you need any additional 
activities/conversations to 
address your focus? 
• How will you wrap up the 
session? 
• How long will the session take?
Friends & Family
Professional 
Client-Assisted
How do you plan to recruit them?
Briefly describe your recruitment plan:
1.
2.
3.
2 
Identify the primary context where you might observe the activities or have 
the conversations needed to address your focus.
Context: Where does your focus take place?



==================================
FILE: assignment - 1\DesignSynthesis AC4D_worksheet.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
Insight Combination   
1 
Identify Insights by examining human behavior, ask­
ing “why”, and describing a provocative statement of 
truth.  Write the insights on yellow notes.
2 
Identify patterns by examining trending topics in 
culture. Trends can extend across popular culture, 
technology, fashion, etc. Write patterns on blue notes.
3 
Combine insights and patterns to force a new design 
combination. Spend no more than one minute per 
design idea. Write the idea on a green note.
Insight 22
People are expanding their understanding of 
“appropriate” human to human interactions, 
as they search for meaning in the minutia of 
their daily lives. 
(#14, 15)
Pattern G
Reality television has moved from realistic, 
top surreal, to “car-crash-in-slow-motion.”
22-G
A dating site that puts people into finite situ­
ations of absurdity, which is live-streamed to 
the internet and open to online commentary. 
Extract insights from your research; four or five 
contextual inquiries will generate 8-10 key insights. 
Spend time crafting the insight to be specific.
You can use patterns that are “appropriate” to your 
context, in order to provoke “safe” ideas. You can use 
patterns that are extremely disassociated from your 
context, in order to provoke “wild” ideas. Try to iden­
tify fifteen or twenty patterns.
Mingle the blue and yellow post-its, moving them 
around physically, and actively reflecting on potential 
combinations. Force each combination into a new 
design idea. Write the idea on a green post-it note. 
Insight Combination:
• 
is best done in groups
• 
generates lots of ideas in a short time
• 
requires yellow, blue, and green cards (limit the 
card size in order to force rapid ideation)
• 
is best used at the beginning of ideation, to pro­
voke lots of new ideas
A method of building on insights and 
established design patterns in order to 
create initial design ideas.
Is an individual and/or group activity
Produces one idea per minute
Materials required:
Required: Participants should have conducted 
research in order to collect raw data, and should have 
transcribed that data into an easily consumed format.
Preparation: None 
Activity Details:
Before Starting This Activity:
About this activity:
·  Yellow, blue, and green cards



==================================
FILE: assignment - 1\Instructions.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
Assignment 1 - Formative, non graded - Group work
Concept Map, Design Synthesis,
Design research plan
Submission: Blackboard, 14th February 23:00.
Mini Presentation: 11:00-12:45 15th February.
This assignment consists of three parts. For parts 1 and 3, you can use the
respective AC4D activity sheet, which can be found on Blackboard. Your
goal is to work with your group, iterate your design plan, and submit an as
complete and realistic design plan as possible.
Submission
For this assignment, you have 3 parts to submit on Blackboard, your:
1. Design research plan:
 
  
Use  the DesignResearchPlan_AC4D_worksheet.  It already  contains
the  specific  questions  that  you  need  to  answer  to  complete  the
assignment. Extra guidelines: Provide a complete, but at the same time
succinct, description of your users and their requirements (criteria of
choice, needs, context, plan of recruitment). Give  a set of clear and
distinct (no overlaps) research questions that your study will address.
Make sure that your user group is appropriate for your research questions
and  vice  versa.  Your  design  research  plan  needs  to  be  convincing,
realistic, and you should be able to complete it within your timeline. The
research plan should match your research questions and should be to-
the-point (no superfluous text). 
Submit the DesignResearchPlan_AC4D_worksheet. 
2. Concept map:
 
 
◦I) Concept Map: your final concept map in an easy-to-read, easy-to-
understand  format  (e.g.,  digital  bubble  diagram  or  other  type  of
process model), 
◦ii) Explanation: a brief (max. 250 words) explanation of your thought
process to arrive to this concept map (including the connections with
your design plan). 
Submit both your concept map and explanation text.
3. Design synthesis:
 
 
Use  the  DesignSynthesis_AC4D_worksheet.  Provide  the  list  of
“insights patterns idea combination” ideas that you derived using the

--- Page 2 ---
insight combination method. Make sure that the list is easy-to-understand
at-a-glance, by keeping your text to-the-point and using color-coding (like
the ones used in the AC4D sheet). Make sure that you capture as many
pertinent  patterns  as  possible.  Be  creative  and  offer  innovative  idea
combinations while making sure that these eventually address the user
needs. 
Submit the color-coded list, e.g., as a Miro screenshot.
Presentation 
Prepare  a  short  presentation  (max.  10  min)  for  just  your  lecturer/TA
summarizing your Blackboard submission. No slides needed.
Useful literature
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1358628.1358774
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/332040.332047
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2858036.2858224
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2317956.2317968
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1182475.1182476



==================================
FILE: assignment - 2\CustomerJourneyMap_Template.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
Persona: 
Goal: 


==================================
FILE: assignment - 2\Instructions.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
Assignment 2 - Formative, non graded - Group work 
Scenarios, Storyboards,
Wireframes, Journey Maps
Submission: Blackboard, 21st February 23:00.
Mini Presentation: 22nd February 11:00-12:45 
The  goal  of  this  assignment  is  to  create  at  least:  one  scenario,  one
storyboard, and one customer journey map. Proposed workflow:
1. Use the Scenarios_ AC4D_worksheet to build effective scenarios that
strongly illustrate your idea. Keep in mind the tips for good scenarios
from the slides.
2. Get user feedback on the scenario(s). Be pragmatic (e.g. three users are
enough at this stage). Revise the scenario based on the feedback. 
3. Draw your storyboard. You can use the template Storyboard_Template
provided on Blackboard if you'd like. 
4. Get user feedback on the storyboard (three users are enough). Revise the
storyboard based on the feedback. 
5. Draw  a  customer  journey  map.  You  can  use  the  template
CustomerJourneyMap_Template provided on Blackboard if you’d like.
6. Get user feedback on the artifact you created in Step 5 (three users are
enough). 
7. Reflect in the diary. 
Submission
For this assignment submit, on Blackboard, your:
•
Scenario. Cover all five steps proposed in the AC4D sheet, describing the:
1)  user  personas,  2)  detailed  persona  context,  3)  goals,  4)  goal
prioritization, and 5) story narratives. 
•
Storyboard. 
•
Customer journey map. 
•
Description of how you used the user feedback to iterate on your design
(max. 400 words)
Submit all parts as PDFs.
Presentation
Prepare  a  short  presentation  (max.  10  min)  summarizing  your  Blackboard
submission. No slides needed.

--- Page 2 ---
Evaluation
This assignment is not graded, instead we (teachers/TA) will provide you with
feedback on your presentation on the basis of the characteristics for good
scenarios/storyboards/customer  journey  maps  from  the  slides,  and  the
following points:
•
Clarity. Are the scenario(s), storyboard(s), and customer journey map(s)
clear or do they seem to be missing important information?
•
Consistency. Do the scenario(s), storyboard(s), and customer journey
map(s) fit together? Do they follow the same approach, and do they try
to tackle the same RQs?
•
Realism.  Are  the  scenario(s),  storyboard(s),  and  customer  journey
map(s) realistic?



==================================
FILE: assignment - 2\Scenarios_ AC4D_worksheet.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
Scenarios   
A Good Scenario:
• 
Acts as a bridge between an initial design idea 
and a solution
• 
Advances the fidelity of an idea
• 
Stands on its own, without explanation
• 
Does not prescribe interface elements in any great 
detail
• 
Includes a rich description of a person
• 
Includes a rich description of a goal
A Good Scenario:
Fred grabs his phone.  He opens the beer-finding 
App., and locates a beer nearby.  He chooses to have 
it delivered, enters his payment information, and 
completes his order.
1 
Identify the people who will be using 
the system. Create a persona page for 
each distinguishable user.
What are their names?
Where do they work?
What level of technical experience do 
they have?
What level of technical competence can 
you assume with this system?
Do they have any physical or cognitive 
limitations?
2 
Identify the starting state / context. 
List as many details as possible.
Where will the people using your system 
be, physically, when they encounter it?
Will the people using your system 
have any other limitations because of       
there they are at?
What state is the actual product or 
service in when they first acknowledge 
it?
3 
List the goals the user may have, as 
they pertain to your product or service. 
Put each goal on a post-it note.
A goal is about a fundamental want, 
need, or desire that is presently 
unattained.
Goals rarely change, even when 
technology evolves.
List as many goals as you can think of.
4 
Prioritize the goals, based on your 
understanding of your users.
Stack rank the goals, putting them in 
order from “most important to achieve 
using this system or service” to “least 
important to achieve using this system 
or service.”
5 
On a separate piece of paper, craft a narrative that 
explains how a person will use your system to achieve 
their goals.
Don’t try to achieve all of the goals in a single epic story; 
instead, create multiple stories, one for each goal. 
 Keep the conversation at a high, behavioral level, rather 
than a low user interface level.
Name
Name
Name
Name
Distinguishing 
Characteristics
Context / 
Starting State
Context / 
Starting State
Context / 
Starting State
User Goals
User Goals
Distinguishing 
Characteristics
Distinguishing 
Characteristics
Distinguishing 
Characteristics
A scenario is a written story that explains 
how a person will use a product, service or 
system to achieve a goal.
Is an individual and/or group activity
Takes 15 - 20 min 
Materials required:
Required: Participants should have an understanding 
of a topic, built off contextual research.
Preparation: None 
Activity Details:
Before Starting This Activity:
About this activity:
·  8.5 x 11 Paper
·  Sharpie Markers
·  Post-It Notes



==================================
FILE: assignment - 2\Storyboard_Template.pdf
==================================

--- Page 1 ---
UX Design Storyboard
Scenario:



==================================
FILE: slide\0 - Course Introduction.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---

Lennart Herlaar, Marit Bentvelzen, Julie Pivin-Bachler 

INFOMITI 2023/24Course Introduction
3/6/2024
--- Slide 2 ---
Hello, we are your Teachers:
6-3-2024
Lennart Herlaar
l.herlaar@uu.nl
Assistant Professor
Algorithmic Data Analysis 

Julie Pivin-Bachler
j.r.pivin-bachler@uu.nl
PhD
Human-Robot Interaction
Marit Bentvelzen
m.bentvelzen@uu.nl
Junior Assistant Professor
Technology for Reflection
--- Slide 3 ---
Hello, I am your Teaching Assistant:
6-3-2024
Soheil Bagheri
s.bagheri@uu.nl
GMT Student MSc

--- Slide 4 ---
What is this course about?



Practical crash course in Interaction Design
Develop a design project from start to finish
Practice Teamwork
3/6/2024
--- Slide 5 ---
What will you learn?



How to plan design activities
How to iterate design rapidly
How to interact and elicit users’ needs
How to make informed design decisions
How to rapidly prototype solutions
3/6/2024
--- Slide 6 ---
Plus some extra skills:



Low Fidelity prototyping
Hardware prototyping
(Digital) Fabrication
Tangible and embodied interaction
Mobile interaction
3/6/2024
--- Slide 7 ---
What the course is NOT about:



Industrial design
Programming
Business model design
Startup development
3/6/2024
--- Slide 8 ---
How is the course organized?



Combination of lectures, workshops, and guest lectures
Teamwork
Individual reflection
Attendance is necessary
3/6/2024
--- Slide 9 ---
Course Planning: Lectures and Workshops



3/6/2024
--- Slide 10 ---




Intro to IxD & User research
Concept mapping, design synthesis, scenarios & UI storyboards
Wireframes & customer journey map
Functional prototypes: tools and techniques
LowFi vs HighFi prototyping
Evaluation strategies & sensor modalities
Ethics & Privacy
3/6/2024
Lectures
--- Slide 11 ---
 Workshops
3/6/2024
--- Slide 12 ---
What are the assignments?



Concept Map/Design Synthesis/Research plan
Wireframe/Scenario
LowFi prototype
Reflective Diary
Paper
HighFi prototype
3/6/2024
--- Slide 13 ---
Assignments:





3/6/2024
--- Slide 14 ---
Example from last year
Theme: Back to the Future
Topics: memories, time travel, reflection

Echoic: A device that enables you to listen to audio messages created by your loved ones anytime you desire

--- Slide 15 ---
--- Slide 16 ---
--- Slide 17 ---
--- Slide 18 ---
--- Slide 19 ---
Assignments:





3/6/2024
--- Slide 20 ---
6-3-2024
Grading:






==================================
FILE: slide\0 - Intro IxD and User Research.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
08-02-2024

Marit Bentvelzen
m.bentvelzen@uu.nl
User-Centered Interaction Design Fundamentals
--- Slide 2 ---
Lecture's objectives:
What is Interaction Design (IxD)
How IxD evolved across time
How IxD links with User Centered Design (UCD)
What is the UCD approach to IxD?
Examples of Innovative Interaction Technology

08-02-2024
--- Slide 3 ---
08-02-2024
What is Interaction Design?IxD

--- Slide 4 ---
08-02-2024
IxD is a subset of User Experience


USER EXPERIENCE
INTERACTION DESIGN
--- Slide 5 ---
IxD defines the structure and behavior of Interactive products and services
It concerns USEFUL and USABLE interactions between people and interactive systems. 
08-02-2024
--- Slide 6 ---
Gillian Cramton SmithInteraction Design Institute
“In the same way that industrial designers have shaped our everyday life through objects they design for our offices and for our homes, interaction design is shaping our life with interactive technologies – Computers, Telecommunications, mobile phones, and so on”.
--- Slide 7 ---
08-02-2024
We all have seen good interactions…

…and bad ones.
--- Slide 8 ---
08-02-2024
We all have seen good interactions…

--- Slide 9 ---
08-02-2024
And bad ones…

--- Slide 10 ---
Good IxD places Users at the center of the design
--- Slide 11 ---
08-02-2024
What is User Centered Design?UCD

--- Slide 12 ---
08-02-2024
User-centered design (UCD) is an iterative design process in which designers focus on the users and their needs in each phase of the design process.

--- Slide 13 ---
08-02-2024
User-centered design (UCD) is an iterative design process in which designers focus on the users and their needs in each phase of the design process.

--- Slide 14 ---
UCD strives to balance:
User needs
Business requirements
Technology capabilities

--- Slide 15 ---
Good IxD based on UCD addresses fundamental questions such as:
Who is the user?
What is the interface?
How is it used?
Who can afford it?
--- Slide 16 ---
A look at IxD through the years…


--- Slide 17 ---
08-02-2024
ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer) was the first programmable, electronic, general-purpose digital computer, completed in 1945.
its first program was a study of the feasibility of the thermonuclear weapon.

--- Slide 18 ---
Fun facts:
It used plugboards for communicating instructions to the machine thus it took days to rewire the machine for each new problem. 
It was made of 40 panels and occupied the 15-by-9-meter basement of the Moore School.
--- Slide 19 ---
The Teletype Model 28 (1960)
Line of communications terminals for the US Military.
Some of its objectives:
run at 100 words per minute
run quieter and be lighter than previous teleprinters
successfully operate in a wider range of temperatures 
operate in moving vehicles
--- Slide 20 ---


==================================
FILE: slide\0 - Team Formation.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
7-2-2024
Team formation exercise
--- Slide 2 ---
7-2-2024
​
​
​
​
Each of you has been given a post-it with your primary role.​
--- Slide 3 ---
7-2-2024
--- Slide 4 ---


1. Stick the post-it on yourself (e.g., shoulders, torso)
2. 15 min: Walk around the room and assemble a group focusing on the post-its (primary roles) until the group has 5 teammates. Each of the 5 roles should be present in the group.3. 15 min: Now that you are in teams, discuss your secondary roles' preferences. Discuss who should have which secondary role. Primary and secondary roles must be different for each member of the team.

2/7/2024
D
PG
PTT
UR
TC
Designer
Programmer
Prototyper
User Researcher
Team Coordinator
--- Slide 5 ---
7-2-2024
What next?

Start discussing the specific theme you want to work on and agree on a unique team name. :)

This year's broader theme is:
"Enchanted Everyday Objects"



How to?​
Write 3-5 ideas each – 1 min per idea​
Take turns presenting your ideas – 1 min per idea​
Discuss, vote, choose :)
--- Slide 6 ---
Register your team​
You have time until Friday 9/02, 23:00 to register your team. All students, please sign up for your team number on Blackboard.

Team coordinators, please send us an email indicating:​
Team name (it should be a unique name), ​
For each member of the team:​
Name, 
Primary role, ​
Secondary role​
​
At some later moment (t.b.a.): 
Choose two of the workshops* : 
Introduction to 3D modeling
Introduction to 3D printing & laser cutting
Programming with Arduino - level 1
Programming with Arduino - level 2
*We recommend picking two workshops each to cover all skill sets per team and fulfill your learning goals. Overlaps are expected.
--- Slide 7 ---
Monday 12th February:
   The team coordinator introduces their teams to the class.


--- Slide 8 ---


==================================
FILE: slide\1 - ConceptMapping_DesignSynthesis_Scenarios_UIStoryboards.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
Concept Mapping, Design Synthesis, Scenarios & UI Storyboards
INFOMITI 2024


Julie Pivin-Bachler
--- Slide 2 ---



Concept Mapping


2
--- Slide 3 ---
What is a concept map?
3
Mind palace, mind map, concept map, all the same!







https://www.deviantart.com/savanahcat
"A representation of a system that sacrifices accuracy for 
comprehensibility (a tool for sensemaking)."



Concept map: Depicts relationships between ideas/concepts.

Mind map: Represents one central idea/concept.

--- Slide 4 ---
What is a concept map?
4
https://www.imindq.com/mind-mapping/the-differences-between-mind-maps-and-concept-maps/
--- Slide 5 ---
Why use concept maps in UX design?
To brainstorm and generate ideas 
To build our understanding of a topic and how ideas link together
May help to uncover relation between concepts 
To organize your findings logically and visually
5
--- Slide 6 ---
What is a concept map made of?
6
--- Slide 7 ---
What is a concept map made of?
 Nodes = topics/concepts/ideas/nouns
7







--- Slide 8 ---
What is a concept map made of?
 Nodes = topics/concepts/ideas/nouns
 Edges = action = verbs = links between nodes
8








--- Slide 9 ---
A simple example
9
--- Slide 10 ---
10
scy-lab.eu
--- Slide 11 ---
11
--- Slide 12 ---
How to create a concept map?
 Our year's theme is "Enchanted Everyday Objects"
 Choose your specific theme: it could be anything! :) 
12
You have a more specific theme you agree on? You can start building your concept map!
--- Slide 13 ---
A step-by-step guide
Write down all key concepts/ideas/words that come to mind related to your theme
Establish relationships, there is no one right way to do it!
Prioritize: identify the main branches of the map
Fill in the rest of the structure
Enhance with visual design for better, easier, and faster understanding
13
--- Slide 14 ---
A (not so) simple (but complete) example
Write down all key concepts/ideas/ words
Establish relationships
Prioritize 
Fill-in
Enhance with visual design
14
--- Slide 15 ---
15
Write down all key concepts/ideas/ words
Establish relationships
Prioritize 
Fill-in
Enhance with visual design
--- Slide 16 ---
16
Write down all key concepts/ideas/ words
Establish relationships
Prioritize 
Fill-in
Enhance with visual design
--- Slide 17 ---
17
Write down all key concepts/ideas/ words
Establish relationships
Prioritize 
Fill-in
Enhance with visual design
--- Slide 18 ---
Good or bad?
18
--- Slide 19 ---
What makes a good concept map?
Clarity: easily understandable
Hierarchy: the links between concepts and hierarchy of importance are clear
Relevance: the concepts and links are relevant to the theme and project's goals
Consistency:  the visual representation should be cohesive and coherent
19
--- Slide 20 ---



Design Synthesis


20


==================================
FILE: slide\1 - Wireframes_CustomerJourneyMap.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
Customer Journey Maps & Wireframes
INFOMITI 2024


Julie Pivin-Bachler
--- Slide 2 ---



Customer journey map


2
--- Slide 3 ---
What is a customer journey map?
An illustration of what the user goes through to achieve their goals.

3
Thoughts
Feelings
Goal
Actions
How to improve?
--- Slide 4 ---
How to write a customer journey map?
Put yourself in the user (your persona)'s shoes.
What steps do they need to take to achieve their goal? (story outline)
Which actions? 
Which tasks for each action?
How are they likely to feel during each action?
Where can your design be improved?
4
--- Slide 5 ---
A step-by-step guide
5
--- Slide 6 ---
A step-by-step guide
6
--- Slide 7 ---
A step-by-step guide
7
--- Slide 8 ---
A step-by-step guide
8
--- Slide 9 ---
An example
Jamal is your persona.
He wants to fulfill his life-long dream of going to the top of the Empire State Building.
To find his way, he will use your navigation app.
9
--- Slide 10 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 11 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 12 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 13 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 14 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 15 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 16 ---
Persona: Jamal
Goal: Find a subway route that will take him to the Empire State Building

--- Slide 17 ---
What makes a good journey map?
Contains obstacle-free paths for users
Documents the entire sequence of events and interactions a user experiences
Identifies improvement opportunities
17
--- Slide 18 ---



Wireframes


18
--- Slide 19 ---
What is a wireframe?
A visual representation of a UI, abstracted to show behavior and controls instead of color or emotion.
Early prototype of UI to get feedback: a "blueprint"

19
Wireframes come in sets.

--- Slide 20 ---
How to draw a set of wireframes?
Initially, very simple: shapes, no colors, some conventions. 
The idea is to increase fidelity: no placeholders, actual content, design.
20
Fidelity
https://decode.agency/article/low-fidelity-vs-high-fidelity-wireframes/


==================================
FILE: slide\2 - functional-prototypes-2024.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
Developing functional prototypes
1


INFOMITI
Lennart
Herlaar
--- Slide 2 ---
Contents
Functional prototypes
Ingredients
Embedded systems
Physical computing
Tools and techniques
3D modeling
3D printing
Workshops, Lili's Proto Lab
--- Slide 3 ---
Functional prototypes
--- Slide 4 ---
Prototyping
Goals of prototyping
Answer design questions / check design assumptions
Communicate design ideas
Iterative process
Different levels of fidelities of completion


--- Slide 5 ---
Functional prototypes
“A functional prototype captures both function and appearance of the intended design, though it may be created with different techniques and even different scale from final design” (Wikipedia)
Different material, process and requirements
Your Mileage May Vary
Not as ‘camera ready’ as the definition implies
Appearance may be an approximation
Not designed for production

--- Slide 6 ---
Fidelity sweet spots?



--- Slide 7 ---
Fidelity sweet spots?



--- Slide 8 ---
Functional prototypes
In a digital context, aesthetics may be…
…easier?
As tools are more polished?
Bits versus Atoms
…more important?
As they are abstract, they rely more on visualisation?
“It all depends”
What is your goal? => type and fidelity
We’ll focus on physical prototypes now
Some tools and techniques may have a broader use
--- Slide 9 ---
Ingredients
--- Slide 10 ---
Ingredients
Hardware
Embedded electronics, standard devices
Software
Embedded, apps, computer programs
Mechanical parts
Casing / housing
Often a combination of these
Electronics embedded in a housing with mechanical controls communicating to a computer program
--- Slide 11 ---
Ingredients
Tools and techniques
Digital, physical
Connecting stuff together
--- Slide 12 ---
Embedded systems
--- Slide 13 ---
Embedded systems
Computer system with a dedicated function
Part of a complete device
Often including electrical and mechanical parts
Often satisfying real-time constraints
Microprocessor or microcontroller based
Robust, rugged, resilient
Limited in processing power
Governed by costs, power consumption, size, etc.
--- Slide 14 ---
Embedded systems are…
Embedded systems are ubiquitous
Traditional applications
Industrial processing
Traffic, avionics, medicine
And beyond
Personal devices
At home, at work, everywhere
How many in the average household?
About 100 in your average (luxury) car
--- Slide 15 ---
A microcontroller (MCU, µC, uC) is a small computer on a single chip
System on a chip (SoC)
It contains a processor core (CPU)
As well as memory and inputs/outputs


Separate memories
Flash memory for program storage
RAM memory for runtime data
µProcessor vs µController
--- Slide 16 ---
Physical Computing
--- Slide 17 ---
Physical Computing
Physical computing, in the broadest sense, means building interactive physical systems by the use of software and hardware that can sense and respond to the analog world. While this definition is broad enough to encompass things such as smart automotive traffic control systems or factory automation processes, it is not commonly used to describe them. In a broader sense, physical computing is a creative framework for understanding human beings' relationship to the digital world. In practical use, the term most often describes handmade art, design or DIY hobby projects that use sensors and microcontrollers to translate analog input to a software system, and/or control electro-mechanical devices such as motors, servos, lighting or other hardware.   [Wikipedia]
--- Slide 18 ---
--- Slide 19 ---
Physical Computing
Elements of 
Engineering
Design
Prototyping
Physical
Close to and using hardware, mechatronics
But also "hands-on"
Blurring lines between hardware and software
Hardware dictates the limits
Software determines functionality
Choices between these are often possible

--- Slide 20 ---
"How the computer sees us"


==================================
FILE: slide\workshop-arduino-1-and-2.pptx
==================================

--- Slide 1 ---
Embedded systems and sensors
1


INFOMITI
Lennart
Herlaar
--- Slide 2 ---
Contents
Embedded systems
Arduino platform
Sensors and actuators
Circuits and coding
Getting your data out (and in)
Connecting stuff together
Low code platforms


--- Slide 3 ---
Embedded systems
--- Slide 4 ---
Embedded systems
Computer system with a dedicated function
Part of a complete device
Often including electrical and mechanical parts
Often satisfying real-time constraints
Microprocessor or microcontroller based
Robust, rugged, resilient
Limited in processing power
Governed by costs, power consumption, size, etc.
--- Slide 5 ---
A microcontroller (MCU, µC, uC) is a small computer on a single chip
System on a chip (SoC)
It contains a processor core (CPU)
As well as memory and inputs/outputs


Separate memories
Flash memory for program storage
RAM memory for runtime data
µProcessor vs µController
--- Slide 6 ---
Platforms
Many different platforms exist
Coding in C/C++ or MicroPython
--- Slide 7 ---
The Arduino platform
--- Slide 8 ---
The Arduino platform
Hardware
Simple but versatile I/O board based on an Atmel microcontroller (uC)
Software
Java-based platform independent IDE for software development using a C (or C++) variation
Community
Many websites with tutorials, blogs, forums, etc.
Active user groups (usually around an application)
--- Slide 9 ---
Why Arduino?
Versatile and relatively powerful
Open source hardware and software
Affordable
Well documented
Easy
USB interface, bootloader
C (C++) variation (but don’t worry)
--- Slide 10 ---
Arduino Uno R3










Power supply circuit
USB
connector
USB to serial chip
Digital I/O
In-Circuit Serial
Programming
interface (ICSP)
Analog inputs
Clock crystal

Reset button
Status leds
Microcontroller
Power











--- Slide 11 ---
Shields
Motor shield
NFC shield
GPS shield
--- Slide 12 ---
Prototype breadboard
--- Slide 13 ---
Beyond the breadboard?
--- Slide 14 ---
Soldering is easy!
--- Slide 15 ---
Sensors and actuators
--- Slide 16 ---
Sensors and actuators
Sensors sense the world around us
From a physical property to a digital value
Actuators manipulate the world around us
From a digital value to a physical property
Type of physical property may vary
Level of complexity may vary
Basic binary sensors, basic analog sensors
Complex analog sensors, complex digital sensors
Integrated modules
Thermistor, DS18B20, fire alarm
--- Slide 17 ---
Sensors
--- Slide 18 ---
Actuators
--- Slide 19 ---
Circuits and coding
--- Slide 20 ---
My First Circuit
Controlling a LED
LEDs require a current limiting resistor
